# August 16, 2020

## Syntax Highlighting

I've wanted to enhance the syntax highlighting on the [[Personal Blog]] for a while now - I've had a particular envy for the way the [GatsbyJS documentation] formats the code (that little language banner is sweet!).  A copy button and optional titles are also very cool.  A great example that puts these all together is the demo page for [gatsby-blog-mdx][gastby-blog-mdx sample].

After looking into how these were implemented I was a little put off at how much of it was fairly custom (I was hoping for a drop-in template to update my prismjs based code snippets).  I gave up on it and figured that if I came back again in a while someone might have made this easier (or pointed out how easy it was in the first place).  [This blog post][gatsby - syntax highlight] got me interested again.  After seeing the implementation:

- It is now clear that I'll have to maintain the CSS for each language tag manually (was hoping for that to be packaged up)
- Looks like this has both server-side and client-side implementations - what will the impact (if any) be on performance/lighthouse scores?
- Does this run on all pages, or is there a way to inject the formatter only as required (bundle size?)

Is [prism-react-renderer] the way to go here?  Should I monkey-patch the tags in directly? Is the best course of action to just wait a little longer for that drop-in replacement 😅?

## Speed

After taking a moment to run a few different solutions through Lighthouse I'm now pretty happy with what I have (current blog manages a 100 for performance, the other examples I tested landed in the mid-50s).  I care about this enough to consider adding a [GitHub action] to the build preview to stop me nuking the site's performance.

Seemed so easy I went ahead and created it using the template:

```yml
name: Lighthouse pull request
on: pull_request

jobs:
  audit:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - name: Audit Netlify deploy preview
      uses: jakejarvis/lighthouse-action@master
      with:
        netlify_site: 'fervent-lovelace-f75e7a.netlify.com'
    - uses: actions/upload-artifact@master
      with:
        name: report
        path: './report'
```

The first PR failed, as this action ran concurrently with the Netlify build (and so when it tried to inspect the URI it wasn't there yet).  Running it again after and it did spit out the details in the build steps (though didn't write them to the PR).

There are [some workarounds] though adding another minute on to the build to get a Lighthouse score that still requires a clickthrough?  Feel like a manual inspection of the site is fine, though the approach is neat.  I'm sure it isn't a big stretch to get something that could write the scores into the PR.  Or maybe this should be part of local development (like `yarn build-then-lighthouse`) to ensure nothing terrible is getting shipped?

[GatsbyJS documentation]: https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/quick-start/
[gatsby-blog-mdx sample]: https://gatsby-blog-mdx.now.sh/2020/05/sample-post-1/
[gatsby - syntax highlight]: https://blog.suprabha.me/37-gatsby-syntax-highlight
[prism-react-renderer]: https://github.com/FormidableLabs/prism-react-renderer
[GitHub action]: https://github.com/marketplace/actions/lighthouse-audit
[some workarounds]: https://github.com/jakejarvis/lighthouse-action/issues/14
