# August 26, 2020

Found an [answer on GitHub][installing vc++ in a dockerfile] regarding installing VC++ that clued me in on how to get the dependency to download - turns out there is a way to get `curl` to follow redirects (of course there is!), so the following will download the file from a pretty clear link:

```shell
curl -Lo vc_redist.x64.exe  https://aka.ms/vs/16/release/vc_redist.x64.exe
```

It also points out that the way layers are constructed means my Dockerfile which downloads, installs, then cleans up - will have a layer for each of those steps!  As I'm developing the Dockerfile this is actually very useful, as I don't have to re-run the whole layer (so maybe the file downloaded but I botched up my invocation of the install command).  Need to do more reading on this to understand the impact of having lots of layers.  The [best practices][Dockerfile best practices] aren't super-clear on the _why_ of minimizing layers.

I've put what I think is a pretty decent base image (trapped in the past of R 3.4.0 for now) on GitHub - https://github.com/taddison/docker-samples/tree/main/r

From here the plan is to come up with a few benchmarks (from basic correctness through to database access), and then see the impact of varying a few things:
- R version 3.4.0 -> 3.6.3 -> 4.latest
- R vs MRO
- SQL ODBC v11 vs. v17
- RODBC vs DBI
- Pool vs. No-Pool

It is fair to say I'm definitely focusing on data access, and by picking an example of what was state of the art a few years ago would like to answer 'what does upgrading bring'.  The 3.x vs. 4.x is the only one that might not be a drop-in replacement due to the breaking changes.

[installing vc++ in a dockerfile]: https://github.com/microsoft/dotnet-framework-docker/issues/15#issuecomment-629265013
[Dockerfile best practices]: https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/