# September 6, 2020

Some ideas to tidy up my [[Personal Blog]] with a view to eventually sharing it as a starter. After using several starters and having a lot of poor experiences I'd like to share something that doesn't contain many distractions. In some cases it might be minor (static data in a config file in some places but not all), but in some cases it has been extremely confusing (mixture of redundant CSS, styled-components, and inline styles). As a teaching aid some of the starters out there could generously be described as 'how not to organize your codebase' 😅.

So, on with the ideas:

- Why are link posts special? At best they're a _type_ or _category_ of post, but given that I never really stuck to a cadence perhaps they should be folded in for now. They do demo the source folder plugin I guess.
- GraphQL queries/fragments. What a mess. I'm not sure if I'm talking about GraphQL in general, the overkill it feels like in Gatsby sometimes, or the needless repetition that I'm pretty sure could be avoided with GraphQL fragments. Working in one starter I wanted to change the default image quality from 100 and it scattered over the codebase 50+ times.
- Appropriately selected semantic elements as well as microformats.
- MDX by default. This is something I need to check, but are there any disadvantages to running markdown through an mdx parser?
- Frontmatter linting. The amount of times I've been killed by changing a starter (I'll just remove this bit of frontmatter...) and it suddenly explodes with a cryptic error... (looking at you again GraphQL). It could also be that far better error handling in the `gatsby-node` code would allow for a better debugging experience? Frontmatter linting (in a home-grown hacky fashion) is already helpful for some current sites for me today, could it be baked in to a starter?
- Lift all the misplaced configuration to one place (whatever that may be) and document the configuration. There are going to be cases where the configuration isn't available in the 'central place' (or the naming is weird), so having a document I can hit `CTRL+F` on and search for the thing I want to change (that I last touched three years ago) - that'd be great.
- Related to configuration, is there any reason to not lift some of the configuration out of the plugin configuration directly and pass it through from somewhere else?
- The tight coupling between where the data comes from (e.g. allMarkdownRemark) and what the data is (e.g. allBlogPosts) - is there a reason we don't put an abstraction there? If my blog post comes from a yaml file should my blog post query need to know that?

On that last point, there have certainly been starters where I felt that there was a serious amount of _over-centralization_, so I may refresh my memory on those experiences. Thinking about it now I think a document that describes the configuration is far more important than having it in one place (you could define custom tailwind colours in a centralized `all-the-configs.js` file, but really they belong `tailwind.config.js`).

## Markdown to MDX

Luckily this is well covered:

- https://www.gatsbyjs.com/blog/2019-11-21-how-to-convert-an-existing-gatsby-blog-to-use-mdx/
- https://www.aboutmonica.com/blog/thoughts-on-migrating-from-markdown-to-mdx
  - And slides: https://migrating-to-mdx.netlify.app/slides/1

A few other things needed changing:

- Use `gatsby-plugin-mdx-source-name` to add the source to the Mdx posts
  - This is a breaking change from sourceName
  - And I had to change it in a few places so...clearly lots of work to do for my site cleanup 😇.
- As we're not using `dangerouslySetInnerHtml` on a regular element we now need a wrapper to attach our `className` to

## Removing the special link post treatment?

Looking at the changes from the lens of collapsing links in, I think it's a fairly small set of changes:

- Add category/type
- Add or auto-generate excerpts for links posts
- Remove the templates associated with link posts
- Remove the text referring to links post on the main page, and update the announcement blog post
  - Simplest thing to do here would be a LinkRoundup tag and link to that

Is that work something to tryand tackle along with running all posts through a pipeline to make them available in a `posts` section (rather than mdx/markdown/etc.). This would allow for way better error handling (missing frontmatter? log/throw an appropriate error and maybe even provide a default!). But first things first, I should see if the new world of MDX allows for a low-impact upgrade to the code highlighting.
