# August 25, 2020

Installing a dependency into the R container.  And just to make it challenging let's say it's RODBC ([superseded][odbc release] by the newer odbc package), and let's also say we need to be running the not-latest version of R (say 3.6.3).

Updating the `dependencies.r` script to try out the easy method:

```r
install.packages("RODBC")
```

The first failure tells us that the package isn't compatible with R < 4.0.  So we'll hit up the [archives] instead, and install a specific version (which I guessed was the latest one):

```r
install.packages("https://cran.r-project.org/src/contrib/Archive/RODBC/RODBC_1.3-16.tar.gz", repos=NULL, type="source")
```

This time we get a post-install error complaining that the command `sh` isn't found.  A quick Google later and this looks like an issue related to running R on Windows, where some packages aren't just binaries (and need to build).  This is solved by installing [RTools] - though obviously not the latest version, we need to go back to the 3.3-3.5 branch.  This is going to go into the base image (`rservercore`):

```dockerfile
RUN curl.exe -o c:\tmp\rtools35.exe https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/Rtools/Rtools35.exe
RUN c:\tmp\rtools35.exe /VERYSILENT /DIR="C:\RTools\"

RUN setx path "%path%;C:\RTools\bin"
```

We add the `bin` folder to the path after installing.

This finally allows for the package to be installed, and our `rscripts` image can now do something with RODBC.

## ODBC Drivers

These need installing, and the SQL Server driver has a dependency on the VC++ runtime - downloading these and placing in a folder called `odbc` allows them to be added as dependencies to either the `rscripts` image or the `rservercore` image:

```dockerfile
COPY ./odbc c:/tmp
RUN c:\tmp\vc_redist.x64.exe /install /quiet /norestart 
RUN msiexec.exe /i c:\tmp\msodbcsql.msi ADDLOCAL=ALL /norestart /qn /quiet /passive IACCEPTMSODBCSQLLICENSETERMS=YES
```

> These (along with RTools) can take a fair amount of time to install - they're probably best placed in the base image.

## Container to host connectivity

Before we start testing if the container can talk to a SQL Server running locally (on the host), we'll check network connectivity.

```powershell
docker run rscripts powershell

# In the container...
Test-NetConnection various.different.ip.addresses -Port 1433
```

After spending a bunch of time testing I've confirmed that:
- By default Windows firewall is blocking access to SQL Server on 1433 (turning it off 'fixes' the issue)
- The documentation that suggests using the DNS entry `host.docker.internal` - this doesn't work, and instead I had to use `ipconfig` in the container and access the default gateway

So how do I get access to the default gateway without having to hardcode it?  After a lot of research it seems like:
- This isn't something with an obvious answer
- This isn't going to be problem in a production environment (where we'll be using real DNS entries for SQL Servers)
- Isn't that hard to get because it's the IP of the nat network (from the host `ipconfig /all` and for me it was under the adapter vEthernet (nat), which is the same one listed by `docker network ls`)

So next up how do we allow SQL Server access from inside the container without disabling the entire firewall?

Well this one was done via the GUI (researching the `netsh` command and best practices can wait for another day) - and allowing 1433 TCP for remote IPs in the local subnet (with no edge traversal) seems like a reasonable rule.  And that allows the network connection to succeed.

## Trying to connect to SQL

So the following R script works!

```r
library("RODBC")
dbHandle <- odbcDriverConnect('driver={SQL Server};server=172.21.96.1;database=master;trusted_connection=true')
```

Though fails with 'logon failed for NT AUTHORITY\ANONYMOUS LOGON` - which I'll take as success as at least we got to the host.

So now - how easy is it (or not) to run the container as my current user instead?  Or will I be reduced to a username/password combination in the connection string 😅.

And it looks like the answer right now is basically no - use gMSA (via credspec) on a domain, and if you want to do some local development then you better...also be on a domain?  Not a particularly satisfying answer, and I guess this is another thing that will look a little different between development and production - the other being the gateway IP (though I guess they're both in the connection string which we can inject, and the connection string changing between dev and prod is fine!).

[odbc release]: https://blog.revolutionanalytics.com/2017/08/a-modern-database-interface-for-r.html
[archives]: https://cran.r-project.org/src/contrib/Archive/RODBC/
[RTools]: https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/Rtools/