# August 19, 2020

Back to Docker (see [[August 18, 2020]]), and getting it installed on a Windows image is actually very easy:

```dockerfile
FROM mcr.microsoft.com/windows/servercore:2004

RUN mkdir c:\tmp
RUN curl.exe -o c:\tmp\r-install.exe https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/base/old/3.6.3/R-3.6.3-win.exe
RUN c:\tmp\r-install.exe /VERYSILENT /DIR="C:\R\"

RUN powershell remove-item c:\tmp -recurse
```

This uses the latest semi-annual channel of server core (2004 - see https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-windows-servercore), downloads and installs R, and then cleans up the install.  It also hard-codes our R version to 3.6.3 (and we're not using the MRO distribution here).

How we'd leverage this image would be:
- Connect with an interactive terminal (not helpful in prod)
- Mount a volume of scripts and execute them
- Pull the scripts in to the build container

Option 2 amounts to containerising the runtime, and Option 3 lets us run the container with almost now assumptions about the host environment.  Local development (does this work against vX?) and benchmarking look good for the second option, but unless there is significant friction of the build step that looks like the best option to pursue.

In addition to scripts the build step needs to pull the in dependencies too (packages).  Having to change the dockerfile for each new package seems like overkill so a standard 'dependencies.R' script might be a better approach, and then runtime download/install of packages can be eliminated (which also lets the container need to speak to one less endpoint).

Getting the dockerfile built (assuming it's in a folder called `winr`):

```shell
docker build winr -t rservercore

# And then...
docker run -it --rm rservercore
```

A quick reminder on working with containers...

```shell
# start a new container
docker run rservercore

# get the id
docker ps
# if the container is already asleep...
docker ps -a

# restart the container
docker start some_name

# get back in, attach stdin, and hook up the terminal
docker exec -it some_name cmd # or powershell, or c:\R\bin\R.exe

# Quit out and nuke it...
docker kill some_name
docker rm some_name
```

And transient vs. 'persistent':

```shell
# transient, any changes go away
docker run -it --rm rservercore c:\R\bin\R.exe

# persistent, changes to container last until the container is removed
docker run -it rservercore c:\R\bin\R.exe
```

Neither of the above will continue executing once the process (in the above example, R.exe) exits.  Would need a long-running script for that...