# August 31, 2020

Today's mission? See if we can replace everything in [this post][styling markdown posts with tailwind css in gatsbyjs] with the [Tailwind Typography] plugin.

From a fresh branch we'll start by changing the class on posts from `markdown` to `prose`. Because the `@tailwindcss/ui` package already includes the typography plugin there isn't much more to do.

Doesn't look too bad to start! Couple of issues:

- Doesn't fill the full width of the container
- The inline code snippets render the backticks
- The colors are a little different
- Links are now styled differently
- Font size is smaller on desktop
- Text leading is a little more relaxed

The good news is that apart from the container width the rest aren't really deal-breakers, and it still looks great on desktop and mobile. So - let's correct the actual issues (font size, container width, and those backticks).

Font size is the easiest to fix, and changing the class to `prose prose-lg` has the font size identical to before.

Fixing the container width was as simple as updating the class to `prose prose-lg max-w-none`.

So what about those backticks?

They're not actually being rendered but are additions from the plugin, which come from the following configuration:

```javascript
'code::before': {
  content: '"`"',
},
'code::after': {
  content: '"`"',
}
```

I can get rid of these with the following override in the `tailwind.config.js` file:

```javascript
typography: {
  default: {
    css: {
      "code::before": { content: `` },
      "code::after": { content: `` },
    },
  },
}
```

Though now all my links have lost their boldness and coloring (which I actually preferred to what they were originally!). Hmm. And checking the source code there is no evidence the links were ever styled anything other than the gray they are today (so that purple and bold...who knows where that was coming from 😅).

Overriding the default style required using some syntax I haven't seen before, but looks like this:

```javascript
a: {
  color: theme(`colors.blue.600`),
  textDecoration: `none`,
  "&:hover": {
    textDecoration: `underline`,
  },
},
```

And then while testing I noticed one other area where some extra content had been injected - my blockquotes were now all rendering quotation marks (and I'd intended to use them only to call stuff out). This I got rid of with:

```javascript
"blockquote p:first-of-type::before": {
  content: ``,
},
"blockquote p:last-of-type::after": {
  content: ``,
}
```

To get around the text being a different color I actually updated the site globally to be `bg-gray-700` rather than `bg-gray-800`. I'm also happy with the newer leading, and will give it a try.

For the most part this is a pretty painless switch. The only rule I had to update and preserve was this one, that prevents inline code blocks from not wrapping:

```css
.prose :not(pre) > code.language-text {
  white-space: pre-line;
}
```

This doesn't repro when `prismjs` isn't involved (which is why we target `language-text`).

I'm not 100% convinced with some of the `margin-top` applied to the headers, especially as they're not really used as large section breaks in most posts but more of a navigation aid/a way to break up the flow for the reader.

[tailwind typography]: https://tailwindcss.com/docs/typography-plugin
[styling markdown posts with tailwind css in gatsbyjs]: https://tjaddison.com/blog/2019/08/styling-markdown-tailwind-gatsby/
