# April 17, 2021

## Moving away from Google Analytics

Today my [[Personal Blog]] uses Google Analytics.  I'd rather not have this dependency (the JavaScript for one, the cookies for another, and then finally the lock-in).

So one thing to consider is export - and as there is probably a variable amount of work based on what gets exported (there isn't going to be a raw dump available), that also means considering what I really care about tracking.  I think it's going to be page views by day, device, referrer, url...and then probably some concept of distinct in there (distinct users? sessions?).  Over time it's really the monthly stats that count more than anything else.  I'm not sure if geography is actually that useful.

There are plenty of decent looking paid solutions:
- https://usefathom.com/
- https://simpleanalytics.com/
- https://plausible.io/

But I'm wondering how much I'll sacrifice (ignoring personal sanity) if I roll my own, for as close to free as possible?

Using sendBeacon (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigator/sendBeacon) and a tiny bit of JavaScript (see https://plausible.io/js/plausible.js for inspiration) coupled with a function app (free tier) and application insights (free cap)...how far could I go?

There is going to be a gap (no JS? old browser? bug in the function app? app insights cap?) but I wonder how significant that is, and if I were to commit to paying how little I'd need to pay (function execution is dirt cheap).

The cheapo solution would only give me 90 days of data storage (and up to 5GB/month), and if I wanted to retain it for a while...that'd cost me $7/month/year (1 year of data retained each month (5GB x 12 months)).  So if I had 3 years of data that'd be $21/month, or ~$250/year for 3 years retained.  But that's assuming my site generates 5GB/month...which seems vanishingly unlikely.  The logs from the function runtime are verbose but not _that_ verbose.

> The reason data in app insights (or log analytics or kusto) is so _useful_ is that the built-in query language is fantastic, performance is great, visuals are built-in, and you pay nothing to query.

So at some point if the data collection works, and the idea of paying $0.12/GB/month is too much...then eventually I could see the data being tidied up, extracted and stored somewhere else (and queried, etc.).

Before we get there shipping a function and connecting up appinsights seems like the first port of call.