# April 25, 2021

A few ideas for either the [[Personal Blog]] (or whatever it morphs into over time).

*Publishing these notes* would get them online (working in public is fine, but the experience browsing the notes on GitHub isn't ideal - the wiki links don't work as a start).  Looking around PRs like [this one to add frontmatter to daily pages](https://github.com/lostintangent/gistpad/issues/217) would be helpful, and then throw them into a static site generator.

Not sure whether the repo itself should contain the data to publish, or the repo would serve as a source (could pull on build).  Another question is where do they live - the quality bar is _way_ lower for the notes, they don't even get spell-checked (as I'm authoring them with Gistpad, and cspell doesn't work with that).  Is it really a problem?  Unsure.

Have looked at things like [foam eleventy template](https://github.com/juanfrank77/foam-eleventy-template) - and 11ty looks like it is worth investing in a little but it means a new templating language, and I could just dump everything out into a gatsby site, or even a part of the blog.

*An anti-todo project list* (in the vein of Umberto Eco's _antilibrary_) - though the name needs work.  Consider all the ideas that range from a passing fancy to a well-researched, maybe even POC.  Rather than hiding all of these away in the drawer (filed under: 'for shame, thou shalt finish projects before you start a new one'), why not celebrate them?  Ideation and brainstorming is fun!

Some of these will move over time (not sure if I care about the temporal nature of these items beyond a git history?), and some might end up no longer being a problem worth solving (or there may exist better solutions out there)...but some of them I'm sure I'll noodle on over time.  I guess this makes it an idea/project list, but it doesn't sound as cool as an antiproject list.  Then again calling it an antilibrary doesn't really make much sense either (given a literal definition of a library is _a room in a private house where books are kept_.  Where does it say they have to be read?).

Naming aside, I imagined this as a giant list the reader (mostly me) could scroll through and get lost in - brief descriptions of each project as well as status + area (tags/category), in addition to linking to a complete page of details which would couple as research notes.  It feels like it belongs in the digital garden repo (though it sounds a bit like a bunch of digital weeds!).  Rather than manually linking to each page the 'TOC' should be auto-generated. 