# April 28, 2021

## I'll put a UI on that eventually

At least that was the idea.  Rather than tracking something (in this case types of food given to a baby) in a spreadsheet, why not manually write out the data in JSON format, so that one day I can put a little UI on top of it?  My preferred language right now is JavaScript, preferred cloud persistence is object-based (firestore), and Gistpad lets me edit without needing to worry about pull/commit/push.  Just need to slap that UI together!

Hah.  In the meantime, the file has grown to over a thousand lines, and now I wonder how many more times I can copy-paste-edit items before I'll crack and build something (or accept it should have been in Excel in the first place?).

Sticking with JSON and I guess something like [lowdb](https://github.com/typicode/lowdb) will work.  I'm pretty sure it's rewriting the whole file out again each time...but I suppose that is fine.  It feels like this should probably be [jsonlines](https://jsonlines.org/), especially as the data is mostly append only, and that format is also a little more portable (chop a few lines off and you have a trivial and fast dataset to test with).

A quick search doesn't show much in the way of promising nodejs packages for handling json lines (though I'm telling myself that's a relatively easy serialize/deserialize operation to code myself...), so now the procrastination is _almost over_ and I'll need to write that UI.  Is this finally the excuse I've been looking for to use [Ink](https://github.com/vadimdemedes/ink)...