# December 29, 2021

A veritable cornucopia of ideas to digest from [Andy Matuschak's working notes](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/About_these_notes).  A few ideas really resonated, and start to give some form to ideas I've been slowly coming around to:

- A 'writing inbox' to hold half-baked ideas, prompts, or other items which might be worth developing (or they might not).  This is close to the anti-library idea (anti-task list, anti-writing list).  May or may not be related to the idea of [[Incoming]], though I think unlikely as that list _should_ be cleared frequently.
- How to process an inbox (or anti-list) is interesting.  The act of deletion feels permanent, and so we tend to avoid it - but what if that act was just moving to a recycle bin (that you know you're not going into?).
- Some concept of transient vs. evergreen.  I think most notes are probably going to end up as transient - maybe none will ever truly be evergreen?  Daily notes are the canonical example of transient for me - and from there over time all notes eventually 'decay' to transient.  Is the distinction meaningful for me between the two?
- Writing about books or posts or anything else I've read is likely to rapidly increase what I take away from it.  Does this need to be any more than daily notes?  Probably not, though if a few were pulled together it'd quickly become an evergreen note in terms of what I think of that book.
- There are still no great solutions for highlights and excerpts from ebooks that aren't clunky (think a kindle, not PDF where copy paste is possible).

I've bookmarked a handful of pages to read again and develop these ideas a little more.