# March 31, 2021

## Tailwind now vs. then

Much easier to get started now!  Although the guides are excellent (https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation) that doesn't mean every project I've got is going to be current.  Some things that are really appreciated:

- No need to create a `styles.css` now - if you're using the defaults you can simply `import 'tailwindcss/tailwind.css'`
- No need to configure purgecss as a plugin, purge is built in
- Tailwind UI plugin has been rolled in

The JIT edition is great (https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss-jit), looking forward to that being the default in 3.0.

## Other updates

The husky upgrade killed me (4->6) - though admittedly I was in the edge case of a single git repo with multiple `package.json` files within.  In the end I gave up and ripped it out.

The upgrade from `babel-eslint` to `@babel/eslint-parser` was fine though felt a little...obnoxious?  And I couldn't find any guidance (though I did see people with issues who got help).  Basically (for a project with react):

- Remove babel-eslint and install @babel/eslint-parser
- Run eslint and discover things are bad
- One easy thing is to install the @babel/core package
- Go discover you need to now tell babel it doesn't need a config file:
```js
// eslintrc.js
parserOptions: {
    requireConfigFile: false,
},
```
- Run eslint and discover it now no longer supports react
- Discover this now requires another package and more config!
```diff
// eslintrc.js
parserOptions: {
+  babelOptions: {
+    presets: ['@babel/preset-react'],
+  },
-  ecmaFeatures: {
-    jsx: true,
-  },
}
```

As to why?  It's documented in the (now archived) babel-eslint repo (https://github.com/babel/babel-eslint):

> As of the v11.x.x release, babel-eslint now requires Babel as a peer dependency and expects a valid [Babel configuration file](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/configuration) to exist. This ensures that the same Babel configuration is used during both linting and compilation.

Maybe *upgrading babel-eslint to @babel/eslint-parser in your React app* is a blog post that should exist?

## You can put that config _where_

You can put the prettier config in the package json!  Old news I'm sure...but after my initial excitement (I'm really not a fan of having so many files just related to configuring stuff in the root), I'm wondering if having a giant package.json is actually good (vs. at least you know where to go looking when the config is in a dedicated file...)