# January 23, 2022

## Social media

Much has been written on the deleterious effects of social media consumption.  In addition to the negative impact on mental/physical well-being consumption can have, I'm curious about the impact it has as both:

- An opportunity cost, sucking up time that could be better used elsewhere
- Providing a fake sense of progress against goals of learning

Using Twitter as an example, I'm comfortable I've sidestepped the major landmines by following a handful of simple rules:
- Don't post anything
- Don't read the replies

This reduces the 'social' aspect of Twitter and turns it into a loosely curated (who I follow, who they follow, what the algorithm proposes) set of ideas to consume.  But what value does that bring?

### Learning

One of my primary goals with consumption of information is to learn.  For the longest time this meant curating a list of RSS feeds (originally by hand, then Google Reader, now Feedly) and consuming them.  After a while I added in Twitter and made an initial effort at curating the list of people I follow, but I'm no longer sure that I'm achieving my goals.

Generally I want:
- To learn things that expand my mental model of the world/challenge the model I currently have
- To learn things that help me become more effective/efficient in something I'm doing (personally or professionally - sometimes both)
- To minimize the time spent on net-negative activities
- To balance explore vs. exploit

The last point really captures the essence of why I was attracted to Twitter originally.  With a curated list of blogs to follow it's easy to minimize any perceived waste - but over time blogs atrophy and the list will shrink.  Using blogs to find other blogs generally means more of the same, so something like Twitter as a mechanism for discovery (when used deliberately to follow a much broader range of people than I would otherwise) can help.

### Measurement

Something I've never done was attempt to measure (or even think about how to measure) my success or failure here.  Something like rescue time will clearly show how much time is spent within a given app or website, but of all the things to monitor I think that's probably the least impactful.  It's a useful piece of data to look at alongside other measurements (learning per unit time spent) - but how can I measure the other positive or negative outcomes?

Some of this is broader than social media - mental health, mental elasticity/willingness to change my worldview, effectiveness at a given task/role.  I'm not sure even if I could measure those that I'd see much correlation -  a trivial example being reducing time spent on social media that generated improvement at a given task would probably end up being more time being spent on that task, The social media reduction would be a red herring.

Something more direct could be a retrospective after reading each article/tweet/session - how did I feel about it, did I learn anything, did it challenge any worldviews, would I/did I share the article with anyone.  In this I think there is a large rea I need to explore in the 'tools for thought' space, even perhaps using something like spaced repeition to ask a week/month/year later - how do I feel about this piece of information now?

That sounds prohibitively expensive to implement (how did you feel about this particular _sentence_ - we could quickly get out of control), but I'm convinced there is something to the idea.

### Actions

Right now I'd like to get a better understanding of how I use various sources to find information.  Using pocket feels like a good fit here - assuming it tracks where a link came from (feedly, blog, twitter, other).  It won't give me some interesting metadata (this link came from an RSS feed you subscribed to because of a link you read from an article someone you follow re-tweeted...), but it'll improve on the status quo of today.

An audit of the RSS feeds I follow would help too - and I'd like to dump these into a page in git so I could then diff it over time.  There are many blogs I follow now that I don't think are relevant to me any more (e.g. I'm no longer a SQL Server DBA), but if someone asked 'who should I follow' one answer could be 'at the time I followed these...'.  I think the same might apply to Twitter - maybe via lists, but I can make that change later if helpful.

Finally some element of reviewing - not every link (and definitely not every tweet), but perhaps something as simple as a tag or export from pocket and a review on some cadence to see how I'm doing.

In summary:
- Set up a sink for link consumption (pocket)
- Audit RSS feeds from feedly (one-off, consider recurring)
- Review links read after some time period