# April 24, 2022

## Why Levels?

A reflection on rolling out or updating a levelling framework in engineering.  Definitely positioned as a best practice (see: https://chelseatroy.com/2022/04/18/best-practice-is-not-a-reason-to-do-something/), and very little to support the 'no-levels' side of the argument (beyond maybe Powerful/pre-2022 Netflix).  So, based on Yvonne Lam's comment "what need do levels serve" (https://twitter.com/yvonnezlam/status/1515425807438528514), wanted to come at this from first principals.

### What needs do levels serve? What needs does the business serve?

Customer impact has to be the thread that ties everything together.  Is the cost of implementing this thing (i.e. levelling) worth the return (for our customers/business)?  To answer that we need to start with the customer and work backwards to the business goals that we're shipping.  I guarantee the customer does not care about the levelling framework, so we're already looking at indirect returns.

Some of the more direct benefits we might choose to prioritize:

- Diversity. Does our team represent our customer demographic, and do we sufficiently empower a diverse group to advocate for the customer?
- Ability. Is our team able to deliver what is needed in the timeframe needed to generate business value?
- Adaptability. Will our team be able to deliver as the business needs change?
- Growth. Are we able to grow our team-members to deliver increased impact over time?

These can be broken down further (this is not an exhaustive list, I'm cheating a little here as I know there are certain areas we lean into a framework to 'solve', and so those are the places where we should ask 'is there any other lower cost way of solving this problem?').

- Diversity
  - Equity in pay
  - Equity in access to opportunities
  - Equity in authority
- Ability
  - Hiring
  - Retention
- Adaptability
  - Hiring
  - Retention
  - Training and development
- Growth
  - Training and development

### At what cost?

What is the cost of a framework?  There are the direct costs:

- Time spent working on the framework.  Once built (which will require investment) it will be immediately out of date and require continuous care and feeding.  The framework alone adds *no value*.
- Time spent training people to use the framework. Hiring managers. Interviewers. Promotion decision makers.
- Time spent helping people progress through the framework.

And the more indirect costs:

- Process handcuffs. The many ways in which a framework removes your ability to make decisions in the interest of the business (If compensation is tied to a level you're either breaking a band, breaking your levels, or passing on someone you should have hired.  Ditto if title expectations aren't matched.).
- Time spent helping people progress through the framework _even if that's not a path to current or future customer impact_.
- Decisions that are made in the interests of progressing through the framework rather than solving customer problems (i.e. levelling framework-driven development, the slightly less insidious cousin to resume-driven development).

The latter point can be particularly damaging as _of course_ you're going to be incentivized to grow your total compensation.

### So, what does it deliver?

#### Diversity

Diversity is the most important value delivered by a framework.  I'll state it as:

> Without a framework that codifies titles and pay, underrepresented groups are going to end up being paid less, have less access to opportunities, and have less authority in a conversation.

If you'd like it stated differently, The cishet white guy will not need a title (senior/staff/etc.) to be heard even in conversations where he's the most junior person in the room. He'll get access to more projects which will advance his career at the expense of others. He'll be paid more than colleagues despite doing the same or even an inferior job.

So - how can we solve these problems without a framework?

Pay is the easy in an org where everyone has one title (one level); ensure pay is at or above top of market.  With multiple levels it looks like pay is also solved, but the bias has only moved to how people are levelled (hire, promotion).

I have no idea how to solve for authority or opportunity.  Titles help, though aren't perfect.  Clarity around decision making (who makes this decision?) and requiring input from key stakeholders (what does X think of this?) help, though this asks more from management (who need to make good decisions).

A final thought on diversity - in creating what is supposed to be a fair and objective levelling system, are we actually enforcing bias (see the [paradox of meritocracy](https://gap.hks.harvard.edu/paradox-meritocracy-organizations))?

#### Ability & Adaptability

If we're able to effectively hire and retain great people to solve today's problem's we've succeeded at gaining the ability we need.  To be able to solve tomorrow's problems - assuming they're a different set of problems - we need to be great at hiring or development.  I'm focusing here on a business which is pursuing disruptive innovation (as opposed to sustaining innovation - see [sustaining vs disruptive innovation](https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/sustaining-vs-disruptive-innovation)).

In this kind of organization a framework is doomed to lag requirements - I'm not sure I can make a strong case for it.

> I'd posit that no framework can effectively codify engineers that excel at everything, mainly as they are fictional creatures.  As a trivial example a business shipping web apps is unlikely to have codified native development expertise into their framework. If it pivots to native, adaptable web engineers may be substantially less effective than hiring deep expertise.

For hiring & retention specifically I see advantages.  Some people will not want to join an organization without a clear framework and a path for progression.  In the same way that certain industries or company stages will never appeal to a certain audience, the cost of supporting the framework should be worth accessing this market.

On retention the framework will be great for those who progress, and for those who hit a terminal level it'll be a constant reminder they're done with their progression at this organization. Absent a framework what does progression look like? Being part of a growing business, solving hard problems, and being exposed to great colleagues - in this I think the Netflix model as the right of it.

#### Growth

A framework which covers internships through principal engineers allows everyone (potentially externally, too) to see what progression looks like, and what is expected.  This is work that may otherwise have been give to a manager/tech lead to plot out.  What does the alternative look like?

One option is to remove anything below Senior (as Netflix did) and obviate the need for worrying about early-career growth.  Other options are to focus on building competency development training and having the manager and the engineer own the development.